good afternoon and welcome back to
Downing Street for the daily coronavirus
briefing and I'm delighted to be joined
by Baroness
Dino Harding the executive chair of NHS
test and trace before we turn to test
and trace let's go through the daily
slides if we have the first slide please
this slide shows a testing and the
number of new confirmed cases of corona
virus and the figures show that as of
yesterday there were a hundred and
ninety seven thousand and seven tests
bringing the total number of tests that
have been done in this country to six
million more than six million two
hundred and forty thousand and the
number of confirmed cases as of
yesterday was one thousand two hundred
and sixty-six bringing the total number
of confirmed positive test results to
two hundred and ninety one thousand four
hundred and nine and you can see that
despite the vast increase in the number
of tests that have been carried out the
number of positive cases continues to
fall and has been falling on that
seven-day rolling average a little bit
up from there from there very low figure
yesterday of one thousand and three but
nevertheless continuing overall to fall
next slide please
this matches the data from hospitals
which shows that the number of new
admissions we've covered 19 excluding
Scotland
it was 462 on the 8th of June and this
is down from 658 a week earlier on the
1st of June and down from a peak of over
3000 in late March likewise the number
of those people on ventilator beds and
mechanical ventilators is down to 440
down from 604 a week ago and again that
was over 3000 at the peak so it's very
good progress to see both of those
numbers continuing to fall
over over over recent days if we turn
now to the next slide which shows the
regional breakdown and again as it has
throughout this crisis this shows that
the shape is broadly the same in most
regions of the country and the downward
trend persists everywhere which is
obviously very good news if we turn now
to the the number of deaths the final
slide and the the latest figures show
that yesterday a hundred and fifty-one
people died with coronavirus that's the
reported number bringing the total to
forty one thousand two hundred and
seventy-nine again we can see this
downward trend continues to come down
and in fact the number of deaths over
the past week is the lowest since the
week ending on the 28th of March and
this is good progress but clearly
clearly there is more to do and these
data show that this virus is in retreat
and it's in summary we're working
through our plan and the plan is working
and that means that we're able to
restore some of the freedoms that people
hold so dear and from the beginning of
lockdown the challenge has been not just
how to get the virus under control but
how then to be able to ease the lockdown
measures and I'm I was really delighted
by the announcements that the Prime
Minister was able to make yesterday
allowing these bubbles so that single
parents or those who live alone will be
able to form a support bubble with one
other household and I think this is a
big step forward and it's very difficult
to to imagine the impact if you haven't
lived on your own for 12 weeks and so
I'm really pleased that we've been able
to restore that human contact and the
support that so many have been missing
and I know that the Prime Minister's
announcement has given such hope and
comfort to so many and I'm really
pleased at the very positive reception
that it's got and to help us take more
measures to come out of lockdown of
course the Prime Minister tasked Dido
and I with delivering a test and trace
system testing for the virus and tracing
how it spreads is critical to containing
it locally so that we can ease the
national lockdown and it's by ice
isolating the virus that we can control
it and we can stop it spreading through
our communities in this plan to lift
lockdown test and trace is our radar if
you like it helps us identify where the
virus is and trace how it's spreading
through the community and you have your
part to play if you have symptoms you
must immediately self isolate and get a
test it's easy to get a test on NHS UK
or by dialing 1 1:9 if you test positive
you must work with NHS tests and trace
to identify who you've been in close
contact with and if you're asked by NHS
tests and trace to isolate you must do
so to break the chain of transmission
and to stop the spread of the virus I
would even go as far as to say that
participation with NHS tests and trace
is your civic duty please do it but to
protect your loved ones do it to protect
your community do it to protect the
nation and do it to protect the NHS
today we're able to publish some of the
initial statistics about the first week
of operation of NHS tests and trace
Baroness Harding will take us through
these figures in a moment but I just
wanted to put them in a bit of context
they paint a positive picture as we will
see when we go through the figures
firstly remember that they represent
just the first
seven days of this service and yet it
already had a huge impact the system is
working well and as we both said from
the start we will keep improving it it
will keep getting better and I think
you'll see from these figures why we are
confident that it will be world-class
and I'm also delighted to say that we
still have spare capacity and long may
it remain so this is a good thing it's a
sign of the team's success and I just
want to take this moment before I hand
over very formally on behalf of us all
to thank Dido Anna team to thank the
army of contact tracers thank you to
thank the NHS and public health England
who are playing such an important role
to thank the private companies without
whom this would be impossible including
boots and Amazon and surco and CTL and
finally I want to thank you for your
participation it is brilliant that the
vast majority of people have done their
civic duty and as we work through our
plan and as we keep driving this virus
down let us maintain that spirit and
fortitude that has helped us throughout
this pandemic and that of course
includes not attending large gatherings
including demonstrations of more than
six people now I understand that people
want to show their passion for a cause
that they care deeply about but this is
a virus that thrives on social contact
regardless of what your cause may be so
please for the safety of your loved ones
stay alert control the virus and save
lives I'm now going to hand over to
Baroness Harding to take us all through
the test and trace statistics Thank You
Secretary of State if I can have the
final slide please as the figures in the
top half show in the first week of the
program eight thousand one hundred and
seven
people who had tested positive for
coronavirus had their details
transferred to the contact tracing
system of those five thousand four
hundred and seven people that 67 percent
of the total provided us with the
details of their recent close contacts
and it's very encouraging that over 75
percent gave us this information within
24 hours of being asked to do so we
really appreciate and recognize
everyone's swift response using that
information as you can see in the bottom
half of the slide we were able to
identify 31 thousand seven hundred and
ninety four people who had been in close
contact with someone who tested positive
of these twenty six thousand nine
hundred and eighty five people were
advised and agreed to self isolate which
is 85 percent of all total contacts
identified again this was done speedily
and timely given that it is still very
early days this is really encouraging it
means that the vast majority of people
are responding positively and willingly
sharing information and self isolating
when needed 27,000 people who otherwise
may not have known that they and their
families and communities were at risk
are now safely at home I want to say
thank you to all of you who've got a
test who've given us a list of your
recent contacts and to every one who has
responded and agreed to self isolate NHS
tests and trace is a service for the
public that works best as a partnership
with the public and our first week of
data shows that this partnership has got
off to a good start
but together we know there are further
improvements we can make to the system
the data shows that four thousand eight
hundred and seven of the contacts we
identified didn't confirm to us that
they would self isolate this doesn't
necessarily mean that these people
aren't self isolating some of them we've
been unable to reach some of the people
in this category would have already been
told by their friends to self isolate
and only a small minority don't want to
isolate and we we need to understand why
this is on what we can do to support
them to stay at home
I don't underestimate how tough this is
for some of us and we're working hard to
support you whether from local
authorities the National volunteering
service and through access to benefits
such as statutory sick pay and I want to
reiterate what the Secretary of State
have just said if you have symptoms a
fever persistent cough or new loss or
change in sense of taste and smell
testing is freely available you can and
must book yourself a test if one of your
children for example has a fever stay at
home and order a test if NHS tests and
trace gets in touch with you to say
you've tested positive
you should go online or call us if
that's easier and provide us with
accurate up-to-date information about
your recent close contact and if you're
one of those contacts it is vitally
important that you do what the vast
majority of people are already doing and
agree to self isolate because in doing
so you will be taking the virus out of
circulation protecting your friends your
family and the wider community from
infection so to summarize the system is
working well at scale we are reaching
the majority of people testing positive
and you are trusting in us providing us
with your contacts and isolating when
asked
we will keep learning improving and
refining but I'm confident that together
we are building a high quality service
on which all of us can depend thank you
very much Dido
so we'll first go to questions from the
public and then we'll go to questions
from the media so firstly from the
public we have a video by video Andy
from Bromsgrove
Andy as businesses plan to reopen in the
coming months can the government give
any assurances to any further financial
support if track and trace handlers
request employees to self isolate and
hamper their ability to open and operate
if one employee is tested positive does
that mean that the entire work force
has had contact with that person needs a
self isolate for smaller companies this
could be potentially devastating having
to close for 14 days with no employees
to operate within them thanks Andy
those are incredibly good questions and
I'm going to have a stab and then I'm
sure that Baroness Harding will want to
explain more and the central point I
would say is that we have put in a
financial support package at both of
course for businesses and for those who
need to isolate and if you have close
contacts and somebody test positive then
those close contacts will have to
isolate but as a business you can
mitigate this by ensuring that you have
a kovetz of your workplace so if you
follow the covert secure guidelines that
the government has published for how
businesses can operate in a way that is
safe and doesn't pass on the disease
then those guidelines are consistent
with what you have to do to ensure that
you don't have to isolate if somebody in
the business test positive so by being
covert secure at work that helps to
ensure that fewer people will have to
isolate if one of the team tests
positive and the link between the two
for small businesses I totally
understand it's incredibly important but
the most important message is that if
you are asked to isolate by NHS test and
trace then you must because the worst
thing for everybody is to spread this
disease maybe just to add our close
contact means being within two metres of
someone for 15 minutes or more and
and/or being in very close contact less
than a meter so provided we are all
socially distancing at work and using
good hand hygiene actually you won't be
a close contact with your work
colleagues now I appreciate that that
isn't possible 100 percent of the time
if you're wearing personal protective
equipment correctly that isn't a close
contact and a number in a number of
roles
people are forming fixed teams where a
subset of the business are working
closely together and they will be close
contact so there are a number of things
that all employers and all of us as
individuals can do that will also help
stamp out the virus and have the added
benefit of not meaning that we have to
go into 14 days of isolation Thanks I
doubt that guidance for businesses is
available on the Gov
it's really important because by
following that guidance you'll reduce
the likelihood that exactly as you say
Andy the whole team might have to go off
and isolate and it's one of the reasons
for instance why Dido and I are standing
more than two meters apart here because
this is not close contact because we're
far enough apart and the next question
is text on the screen and it's from Katy
from pressed and Katy from Preston asks
as a parent of a child with significant
additional needs the lockdown has had an
impact on the support network that we
and many other families rely upon can
you tell me how this could be reflected
in any changes made to social bubbles
well thank you Katy
this is a really really important
question and we don't underestimate the
impact that the lockdown has had on
families in your situation and one of
the reasons that we made the decision to
make the change and introduce the social
bubbles that the prime minister was able
to announce yesterday is because that
way without having much of an impact on
the spread of the disease we could give
some relief to some of those who are in
the most difficult circumstances people
living alone for whom we know that the
lockdown has had a particularly
significant impact especially on on
mental health and for lone parents who
really really need that support now I
appreciate that if you're a if you're a
parent but not a lone parent with a
child with significant additional needs
then I absolutely appreciate how your
needs more support - and you're at top
of mind when we come to what further
measures we can take and of course the
more successful the test and trace
Biscay
is the more will sex it will safely be
able to relieve other lockdown measures
that is the that is the absolutely at
the core of the plan so thank you very
much for your question and I wish you
the very best of luck in for the rest of
the lockdown and I hope that we can we
can we can bring relief to you as soon
as possible if we now turn to questions
from the media first question from Q Pym
of the BBC Hugh thank you very much as
you've explained a majority of people
that tested positive you did get contact
details from are you a bit concerned
that with one third of people who tested
positive for whatever reason you
couldn't get details of recent contacts
from well I would say that I think that
the system has worked well and to get
2/3 in the first week of operation it
beat my expectations and then to have
the vast majority 85% of the contacts
that were given self isolating that beat
my expectations - and this system gets
better and better
but Dido will be a so I think Dido did
it and her team did a brilliant job in
the first week and she can give you the
answer of what we're doing to try to get
those numbers up yeah I think for the
first week of a scale citizen service
and this is good performance and and
clearly it can and needs to and will get
better if you look at why we haven't got
a hundred percent of people's close
contacts some of it is we all have a
part to play in this which is when we
take a test making sure that we give the
right contact details for a set
ourselves so it's easier for the test
and trace team to contact you some of it
is us learning when's most convenient to
reach people
so we contact people ten times during a
24-hour period and over the course of
the last two weeks we've already been
testing and learning and improving and
we'll continue to do that to find what
times of day and what means are easiest
to reach people so
Hugh I think for the beginning of this
service the feedback from people testing
positive and from contacts is that they
are pleased with the service NHS tests
and tres is providing can we do better
yes of course we can and will continue
to work at it of course go ahead there
was a time when you said the smartphone
app would play a crucial role with
testing and tracing what's the situation
with the out right now well as we've
repeatedly said the the app will help
and we'll bring it in when it's right to
do so and as we launched NHS tests and
trace we were clear we want to embed
this system and get confidence that
people are following the advice that's
given by human beings before introducing
the technological element and that
remains the case thanks you next
question Tom Park from ITV hi Tom hi
thanks very much for taking my question
and I think it's fair to say listen to
the answers to his question test and
trace is not yet the world-beating
system that that the Prime Minister
promised we've still got 1200 new cases
of the virus each day isn't another
significant easing of lockdown on Monday
a very dangerous step for both health
and no it's not and the first thing I'd
say is I have confidence and renewed
confidence with these statistics that we
will get a world-class system the Prime
Minister promised that we would have the
system up and running on the 1st of June
and we delivered ahead of that
commitment in at the end of May and he
promised that we will have a world-class
system and we will we clearly are
building and improving all of the time
and we've been incredibly frank about
the fact that this system is going to
going to get better and better and you
can see that it started in a in a pretty
good shape but of course it has to get
better and better the link towards the
to the lockdown measures is important
too because the better test and trace is
so the the more lockdown measures we can
relieve say
but I'm confident that the measures that
we've announced to be able to relieve on
on Saturday for the social measures on
on Monday for the retail measures they
are safe they're part of the plan we're
working through our plan we're sticking
with that plan and the plan is clearly
working we're coming out of lockdown
carefully and safely and I think you've
seen this week that we're prepared to
take decisions in a cautious way in a
careful way to make sure that we do it
in a way that is safe and the good news
is that the surveys show that the
incidence of the disease continues to
fall and that gives us confidence that
the plan is working and we're able to
make these steps the steps that we've
announced and confirmed in a safe and
secure way thank you very quick
follow-up I may one of the key measures
to how efficient test and trace may work
is the speed it takes for someone who
has symptoms to get tested and get a
result and by that result to get to the
testing Tracy system so far the
government has not made available they
data that those of us outside of
government need to understand how fast
that testing system is working when will
you make that data available so we can
actually figure out how efficient our
dyno to take that question I'm happy to
pick that up so today we've published
the time it takes from the point of
identifying a contact to that contact
committing to self isolating you can see
that that 75% or more are doing that
within 24 hours you're quite right that
we haven't yet published the turnaround
time for testing and therefore the whole
end-to-end turnaround time we're working
hand-in-hand with the UK statistics
authority to make sure that what we
produce is verified data and I know it's
tempting to believe that it should be
really really easy just to give you all
that data and and it just be instantly
right but in order to to join up the
point at which you order a test all the
way through to mapping your contacts
we've got literally hundreds of
different laboratory
across the country and several hundred
different points of testing and the data
needs to be good enough for us all to
draw meaningful conclusions from it so
our commitment is that we will publish
that data as soon as we and the UK
statistics authority are confidence that
we can draw sensible conclusions from it
and we aim to do that as quick as
possible over the next few weeks if at
all possible both at a national level
and then ultimately at a local level as
well thanks very much Tom next questions
from Andy Bell from Channel five thank
you
it's clear that there are still
thousands of people apparently not
cooperating with the system for whatever
reason are you ruling out any kind of
enforcement mechanism to try and make
this we're not ruling it out Andy but we
don't think we need it at the moment and
what we've got to do is keep seeing
those numbers go up the the numbers of
people in the system and the proportion
that we get to because we think that is
the best way forward actually the thing
that I most want to encourage is people
to get a test the the proportion of
people who are at risk of infection that
we can self isolate is in the end
dependent on people who are infectious
getting a test and so actually we want
to encourage everyone to feel safe and
confident that they should get a test if
they have symptoms and making sure that
we bring as many people as possible who
who have got coronavirus into the test
and trace program is actually the number
one thing we need to improve over the
next coming weeks and if you look at the
other end the fact that eighty-five
percent of people who are being called
by NHS test and trace as contacts are
agreeing to self isolate within 24 hours
shows that the vast majority of the
population it's not only just willing to
comply but really sees the importance of
this service and taking it really
seriously we had some wonderful
reactions from people saying thank you
so much for calling me I was about to go
to a family barbecue but now I'm not
because I don't want to infect my family
thank you yes
yeah thank you and just following up on
that slightly which is that those people
who are then contacted and told to
isolate but they're not told to get a
test or they're not tested automatically
you've just said secretary of state that
there is more capacity we did not make
sense to not only say right you have to
isolate but to make sure those people
are also getting a test well we've
looked into exactly that Andy and taken
clinical advice on it and the clinical
advice is that because this virus can
incubate sometimes are quite a long time
up to 14 days if you got a test it might
give you a negative result but you still
are incubating the virus and come out
with it later so the clinical advice is
really clear in that if even if somebody
was tested in that period they'd still
have to isolate for the full 14 days
because of the way that this virus
incubates inside our bodies so that is
unfortunately a matter of biology that
has led to taking that decision it's not
about testing capacity thanks Andy next
questions from Laura hues of the FT
Laura you have rolled out antibody
testing for NHS workers can I ask what
you've discovered through those antibody
tests are there people who are finding
out but they actually had coronavirus
symptoms and if there are people who are
getting this virus and not experiencing
experiencing symptoms how does that
hamper the testing trace approach
clearly people aren't going to go and
get a test or report themselves if
they're not seeing anything different so
the answer I last I do to come in with
the details but the big picture answer
Laura is yes there are some people who
don't have symptoms but do have the
virus and in fact in the ons study we
find that around 70 to 80 percent of
people who test positive don't have
symptoms so that is quite a significant
finding and one of the important things
about this disease in the same way that
a symptomatic transmission is one of the
things that makes controlling this
disease really hard and is novel for any
coronavirus and is part of this one of
the things that makes it so difficult
and that but there is a solution to the
problem that that raises which is that
the more people who do have symptoms who
we get into the NHS test and trace
scheme the more contacts we ice we
managed to isolate so that whether they
have symptoms or not they are isolating
for the period in which they would be
infectious and that breaks the chain of
transmission so precisely because of the
nature of this virus that you can have
it without symptoms and still pass it on
even without knowing you've had it
that's why the 14-day isolation is so
important to break the spread of the
disease Dido just add the other thing
that we are doing is in both the NHS and
in social care we are now routinely
testing staff on to see if they have the
virus at the the swab tests as opposed
to the antibody tests you refer to so
you there we're looking to find people
who have the virus but don't have any
symptoms and as the Prime Minister
confirmed yesterday we are also now
rolling that approach out to other high
risk high contact professions like
people who spend significant amount of
time in an enclosed space with a large
number of people so taxi drivers
security guards and and there I think we
we need to get better at hunting out the
virus both as individuals if we have the
symptoms getting a test and then NHS
tests and trace needs to get better at
targeting our testing in communities and
professions where there is likely to be
more people who have the disease but
aren't showing symptoms I hope that
makes sense
[Music]
um yes I think one of the challenges and
I know we all want it to be true that if
we have antibodies it
then mean that we're free to do things
that others are not but at the moment
the science on antibodies if we have an
antibody test what it tells you is that
you you have antibodies over time we
would expect that we will build up the
evidence to demonstrate what proportion
or level of antibodies you need to
actually have immunity and for how long
you would have immunity but at the
moment the science isn't there so I
totally understand everybody's desire to
know if that core for temperature they
had in February or March was in fact
coronavirus but at the moment it won't
tell you anything other than you did or
didn't have it so it's it will come in
time and the the testing that we are
doing arm antibody testing in health and
care at the moment is enabling us to
build up that scientific evidence base
to the point at which then we will start
to see the real benefit for all of us if
you're if you're called and you're asked
to participate in one of these trials
like the one Dido's just described to
find out the link from having antibodies
to whether you are then immune if you
remember the public then you please do
take part in those trials and so far
we've had a very very positive response
to people being asked to participate in
these trials but they really are
important because they increase our
understanding of the virus and therefore
understand increase our understanding of
what safely can be done to lift lockdown
measures get their country back on its
feet whilst also suppressing the virus
thanks Laura next question is from Mesa
Hall of The Daily Express Thank You
Secretary of State if I can ask Baroness
Harding the people who were refusing to
comply with self isolation what sort of
reasons are they given for not doing so
are your contract tracers trained to
persuade them that it is their civic
duty and should these people frankly
feel ashamed that they're not doing
their bit to help fight this disease and
so tree of state if I could stray on to
the issue of racism that's been
dominating the news this week a number
of Labour MPs have written to the Home
Secretary today who expressed dismay at
her talking about her own hair
in her own personal experience of racism
is she wrong to speak out in this way
Dido well so just to explain the four
thousand eight hundred and seven
contacts who have not confirmed that
they were safe self isolate a
significant proportion of them we
haven't reached yet and spoken to or
being able to get a response from them
so I don't think we should leap to the
conclusion that all of them all 15
percent of contacts are actively
choosing not to self isolate some simply
won't have replied to the text message
or the email or we had the wrong email
or text or number for them so now I
think it's a we were overstating the
number of people who are actively
choosing to ignore the advice and I
think no in the end all of us it's
incumbent on all of us to sort of think
carefully about what we're doing to
protect our loved ones our local
community and what's really encouraging
is the vast majority of people are doing
that and I think we should focus on that
and serve hold the mirror up to
ourselves on how we would behave when we
get that phone call or text message
because our communities would be
depending on us doing the right thing an
onion question about Priti Patel Mesa
and I think that of course
Priti Patel was not wrong to talk of her
personal experiences of of racism and
I've seen this letter and I abhor this
divisive identity politics that's being
leveled at Priti Patel I'm incredibly
proud to be part of the most diverse
government in history I'm very proud to
be part of that with pretty and reishi
and a lock and Nadeem and chemi and
Randall and James and Sue Ellen and all
the rest and we don't think that there's
such a thing as the wrong type of BM e
we think that people are equal and
that's what we need to see as a society
everybody seeing others as equal and I
just hope that the debates that are
rightly taking place are debate
that are all about how we can promote
true equality of opportunity and see
everybody for the individual that they
are thanks Mesa the final question is
from John Walker from the Birmingham
Post and the Newcastle Chronicle John
thank you plan is to carefully reduce
the lock down nationally and to ask
local councils to contain outbreaks in
areas where there's a spike in cases but
Charles has I've spoken to you so they
aren't currently in a position to do
this they were asked to produce an
outbreak control plan by June 30th so
those aren't ready yet they don't have
the legal powers to impose lock downs
locally it seems the government is still
looking at whether they need extra
powers so we've shops opening on Monday
it seems that you are easing the master
lock down before the ability to impose
local controls is in place
and I'm wondering if you could explain
the thinking behind that well that's
that's not quite the case John because
we do have powers to to do things
locally if we need to take local action
to control the the outbreaks and those
powers reside with me as Secretary of
State and we've got a system in place so
that local leaders if they if they have
an outbreak locally are able to raise
concerns if they need more action than
than they have in their own powers
locally this link between the local and
the national is absolutely critical to
getting this right at Dido I wonder
whether you want to say more because
you've been doing so much work on this
yes I just say that that this local
authorities across the country and the
health protection teams are doing this
now so there are a whole host of people
working really hard on the ground to
support businesses and other
organizations that have got small
outbreaks and they're successfully
containing them what we're doing as part
of NHS tests and trace is supporting
those local teams build scale are build
resources and as the social state says
really codifying how they can escalate
if they need help and how we make sure
that everyone around the country has got
the resources they need that's why
the government issued 300 million pounds
worth of additional funding to local
authorities a couple of weeks ago to
enable them to build out those local
plans in fact actually I was on a call
only yesterday chaired by the mayor of
London with a whole group of
stakeholders reviewing the London local
containment plan so actually I think
this work is happening rather like the
rest of NHS tests and trace it will
improve over time but the good thing is
it's live and operating now does that
satisfy you John quickly asking a live a
small question Secretary of State will
you publish your asks age to publish the
regional are figures that you're using
as they seem to be different to the ones
that the media have seen and that we've
been reporting so far yes this point
about the regional are is really really
important to get right and there was
there's more than 10 models that feed
into sage and to their analysis of what
our is across the country and their
analysis is that our is below 1 in all
regions one of those models and had are
above one in a couple of regions but
you've got to take all of the different
science into account you've got to look
at the direct reporting of what's going
on through the ons surveys as well which
aren't models that's actually measuring
by testing on boots on the ground
testing people to find out how many are
are positive and as I say the incidence
of disease the number of cases is coming
down which is really good the amount of
disease that there is in Newcastle and
the Northeast is coming down the amount
of disease that there is in Birmingham
and the West Midlands is coming down and
that is testament to the to the people
in this country who are following the
rules in the very large part and now we
can confirm our doing what doing their
duty by NHS tests and trace as well
thanks very much John and that ends
today's Daily coronavirus briefing see
you again soon Matt Hancock bringing
that briefing to an end
as he said let's have a recap now of
what we've heard in the last hour the
number of people who've died from curve
at 19 has risen by 151 in the past day
bringing the total number of deaths of
people who tested positive for Koba 19
to 40 1279 mouth secretary Matt Hancock
emphasized that if anyone has symptoms
it is their civic duty to get tested
Baroness Harding who is the head of the
UK's test and trace program went on to
announce the testing figures for the
first week between the 28th of May and
the 3rd of June she said that 8117
people who tested positive were entered
into the test and trace system the tray
team reached 67% of those who tested
positive and asked them to provide
details of those they've been in contact
with and of those contacts that the team
reached 85% of them agreed to self
isolate well when questioned why there
wasn't a hundred percent take-up in
agreeing to self isolate Baroness
Harding said the system can needs to and
will get better
Matt Hancock also said that the
government hadn't ruled out in forcing
people to take part in the test and
trace program well our health
correspondent Nick trickle was listening
to all of that and is with me now so a
lot of figures there Nick what struck
you most of all well yes it's not
surprising the tests and tray system
dominated that press briefing given
we've just received the figures for the
first week of its operation there's some
positive news in there the service seems
to be quite good at reaching out to the
close contacts of people who have been
infected many of those are agreeing to
to self isolate but what is concerning
is that one in three people who do test
positive and are contacted by the
service are not really engaging with it
I think what really matters is the
numbers of new infections after all
we're trying to suppress this virus and
the the daily figures we get each day we
got at that press conference show that
at the moment between 1/3 1,000 to 1,500
new coronavirus cases are being
diagnosed each day now that's down from
a peak of around 6,000 some weeks ago
we're testing a lot more people so that
is
good news this second source that we
should look at is the Office for
National Statistics surveillance program
the new figures thought this week will
be published tomorrow but last week it
showed they were one in a thousand
people were currently infected and that
was down from the previous week from one
in 400 so again is improving and
restrictions started to be lifted a
month ago now now some of this will be
just filtering through to these new
infections where we're hearing about at
the moment that's encouraging news but
we will obviously be keeping a close eye
on that and the tests and trace system
will play a crucial role in containing
that and what is the time lag on the ons
figures
well the onus data we've got is to the
end of May so we'll get this figures to
the start of June tomorrow obviously
when we talk about restrictions being
eased people having a bit more social
contact although obviously we're trying
to keep our social distance and it will
take a number of weeks for those
contacts to filter fruit to new
infections but we should have started
seeing a rise if those early
restrictions were going to have an
impact it's interesting professor Chris
witty emphasizes in previous briefings
these are still small modest steps that
are being taken in terms of easing
restrictions but obviously we have to
keep a very close eye on what happens
from now okay Nick many thanks Nick
trill there our health correspondent
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News